want to ramp up B2B leads and revenue
from your website using SEO and content
and stay
tuned hey I'm Sam Dunning host the top
10 B2B marketing podcast business Grow
Show and to check out my free guides
playbooks podcasts or whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me for SEO
your website or B2B Consulting head over
to Sam dunn. org so this episode is
taken from my recent interview on the
SAS Sprints podcast we dive into where
most B2B Tech and service companies full
short when it comes to their SEO and
content strategy I do a deep dive into
initial keyword research right through
to executing an SEO and content campaign
to make sure that your strategy is
actually going to drive qualified leads
and revenue through the door we also dig
into why experimentation is key to
marketing and a bunch of other tips
around SEO and content so with that
let's dive in hey Sam I'm super happy to
have you here how's it going hey yeah
yeah looking forward to the conversation
sir absolutely I'm so thrilled and U I'm
excited for this right let's get started
you know um one of the first things is
that when it comes to SEO a lot of
people don't know whether they are
currently doing it right or what's going
on with everybody starts with certain
assumptions and when you're a small team
you're probably building finel content
priority as as your priority and then
you start expanding as you become a
bigger company but let's start with this
in your observation where do most
companies actually go wrong when it
comes to SEO and you're running an
agency you probably see this on a daily
basis so many things so a lot of it
comes down to the strategy and that
might be because perhaps they don't have
expertise in it or perhaps uh following
guidance from someone else or something
else so a bunch of common mistakes I see
is perhaps they go for creating blog
articles before having clear product or
offer Pages which we can dive into in a
bit more detail in a sec they don't have
a clear defined strategy so they're
trying a bunch of different SEO tactics
like blog articles or they're building
back links or they're trying to do
Partnerships or they're trying to update
their website they're trying to do some
technical SEO they're trying to refresh
their content there's no clear strategy
as to well these are the actual types of
clients you want to attract let's build
out a plan so we attract these that need
our offer that are actually going to
drive inbound lead or inbound demo
request or consult requests in the short
term um or other random things like
trying to build links with with no clear
guidance or having quite a light website
is something that's quite common
especially in the SAS world and B2B a
lot of these websites only have five six
pages like home about us Services
pricing contacts something like that and
if you just have such a thin content
website you're going to really struggle
to to rank so those are probably some of
the the big culprits that I see but
there's lots more that we can certainly
dive into when it comes to SEO yeah no
absolutely each of these are you know um
like rabbit holes that we can absolutely
get into and deep dive let's let's talk
about you know the strategy part for a
second um you know you and I both
understand that having a list of
keywords is not an SEO strategy right so
you're one of the best when it comes to
SEO so maybe give us a glimpse into how
do you typically gu get started with the
SEO strategy once you have a new website
if you're doing a refresh or redesign
you want to think about SEO before you
launch that website because quite often
businesses will come to us and they'll
be like I've just launched a website Sam
I want to start SEO it's like you're
going to cause yourself a whole lot of
pain because if You' have thought about
SEO when you're building this thing out
it would have been a lot lot easier
anyway with that said the main thing you
want to Define first and foremost with
an SEO strategy is really like what do
we want to get out of this and in the
most in most cases in B2B s these
companies want to drive inbound demo
requests they want to drive qualified
opportunities for their s team so they
want to make organic search a
sustainable source of inbound fuel
revenue and fuel sales team with Juicy
leads so first thing you want to really
be clear on is who exactly are we
targeting what's our ideal client
profile but
moreover what are the main offers we
actually want to get inbound for and
what are the main industries that we
best serve that drive good revenue and
that we enjoy working with because from
there we can start researching and
seeding out um opportunities when it
comes to potential keywords that we can
Target I like to call Money terms that
are going to be the uh the quickest wins
because ultimately that's what we want
to do we want to be found by these
prospects that fit our ideal client
profile that are quite literally
searching for our offer or service so
longtail searches is one of the best
ways to do that and you can use the
common culprit on SEO tools like hre
Rush whatever um so first and foremost
like from our perspective to give you a
actual example we hadn't done a whole
bunch of SEO on our website for a little
while because we're servicing clients so
I thought look let's I want to double
down on all the industries we serve so I
started um doing some research and
basically building out Pages for every
Niche so in our case it was like B2B SEO
for SAS will build out a page for that
um build B2B SEO for pharmatech
companies B2B um SEO for health tech
companies Etc so think about what is the
core offer that you provide and what are
some of the core Industries and those
can build out longtail keywords that
those particular relevant um prospects
might search for and then you can build
a best-in-class landing page that talks
about the problems how you fix them why
you're different qualifies them Etc and
I can talk about long form landing pages
in a bit but yeah that's one of the
first things like building out those
long form keywords
um but it doesn't end there so there's
other opportunities once you've nowed
down what I call the money terms for the
main offers and industries you want to
get leads from then you can start kind
of working up the funnel and that might
be something like midf funnel where
people at the comparison stage so you
might look at alternative keywords so if
you've got common competitors that you
come against um for example if your
proposal tool that might be I don't know
proposify versus Panda do or pandadoc
Alternatives or proposed for
Alternatives um because as you know in
the B2B space most of the time these
companies are comparing two or three
vendors so you want to make sure you
show up um when people are doing these
searches and then you can do once you've
nailed down your kind of midf funnel and
bottom funnel search as you can think
about early in the funnel early in the
stage um s stage process which might be
prospects have questions around your
offer they might have problems you fix
um and actually understanding and
knowing what to Target for those is
really good to dig into things like
sales conversations customer success
conversations um prospecting
conversations because you can quite
literally get with your sales team and
understand what are the common queries
that we get on a day-to-day what are the
common objections we face what are the
common frustrations the prospects come
to us to fix all that juicy info that
can also be really well leveraged for
your keyword research and can also tap
into something called zero click Search
terms which is essentially where you
ignore tools like hats and some rush and
you go after the keywords that might
show a zero volume or 0 to 10 searches
but you know that you're getting asked
these queries all the time therefore if
you build out great Pages great content
that addresses those pain points or
questions you can actually capture
demand before your competitors even get
a sniff so that's probably one of the
first stages I'd recommend getting a
clear strategy for bottom of funnel
which would be where the first couple
months are spent and then working your
way up um before we jump into website
content I absolutely loved the last part
especially and that was something that I
was going to ask based B on how your
answer was going towards that because
you know um the initial part that you
described uh primarily looks like
something that you know you work on a
well- defined Market where you know that
these are the terms that my prospects
are going to search with and um you will
Target a different set of keywords and
try to rank better and all of that but
when you're starting out especially you
know when you are a new product like you
said you know these guys are going to
have only about five or six pages on
their website which means that they have
to build out an entire content strategy
around it and many of times the thought
process there is that hey should I
invest on demand capture or should I be
doing demand gen as everybody on
LinkedIn these days are primarily
talking about so what what is your
thought process there what would be your
recommendation for something who's
somebody who's just starting out what
would be the division for you oh in
terms of like a new B2B SAS company like
what what they should do is yeah for
somebody who is new let's let's say yeah
let's say somebody is coming up with uh
you know a new product to compete with
HS right or or any or padok for that
matter right it's it's going to be an
absolute struggle but where do you start
you know because these markets are
already flooded and you cannot be
playing the catchup game you also have
to put out something that is very very
unique so how where do you start
completely depends on the situation
right if they've got funding then they
can do what they want they can invest in
everything but let's pretend that
they're bootstrapped and they've got
limited cash then I probably wouldn't
think about SEO straight away so if if I
was in that situation where I had a new
tech product be it SAS or be it a
service then the go to market in my mind
would be more let's acquire customers
let's get some monthly recurring Revenue
then let's scale marketing so literally
what I've done with my businesses when
I've started I've always got the
quickest wins which typically is
existing Network so where have you got
an existing Network that you can sell to
do you have some connection do you have
a decent um connections on LinkedIn do
you have an audience elsewhere maybe
you've got an email list maybe you've
got a channel on YouTube maybe you're in
a a slack Community maybe you've
actually got meetups that you do kind of
real friends real connections so first
and foremost always the quickest way to
sell because that's what you need to do
first and foremost get cash in the bank
so you can actually grow your product
grow your team grow your revenues and
start building is yeah leverage your
existing Network so start reaching out
to prospects that you already know that
already trust you and say look I've
built this thing this is the problem we
fix can we have a conversation um
because they already know and trust you
and not only that but they can start
giving you some social proof once you
start selling to them you get some cash
in the bank and start getting some case
studies some testimonials then you can
start working on the real goto Market
motion which might be organic search
strategy it might be yes you want to
capture demand first I wouldn't even
think about building demand at this
stage once I've got some cash in the
bank from that first exercise then I
would start capturing demand so on the
basis that the offer is an established
Market which it would be if it some kind
of proposal tool or whatever meaning
there's prospects searching for the for
the offer Chuck some money into Google
ads Chuck some money into maybe G2 or
cap Terror whatever is relevant these
are the listing aggregator sites that
have a ton of traffic because then you
can just start capturing a few leads for
people that have high intent for your
offer and then you can start thinking
about kind of scaling out on organic
search strategy that would be my first
idea point of view no I absolutely love
that that's very uh founder friendly
talk absolutely I resonate with you uh
because you know I've been through the
same process myself um you know coming
from a proper content marketing
background and then starting out my
agency it's it's still like you have to
reach out to your immediate Network to
put food on the table and then like in
in my is um the first three months I
didn't even build my website right so we
came back and did this we started the
podcast first and came up for the
website much later and then uh content
and all those things um came up a bit
later because the focus is like you said
you know the focus was always delivering
for existing customers and then your own
website as an agency becomes less of a
priority in that uh sequence but let's
talk about this you know let's talk
about um driving Revenue using SEO you
mentioned uh you know uh money keywords
I would love to double click on that and
understand um what are those and um how
do they connect to revenue the reason
why I ask this is that generally it is
very difficult to get the stakeholders
together in an organization to agree on
this SEO strategy so let's talk about a
combination of that what are money
keywords and how do you get people
together to work on a strategy so yeah
money keywords essentially what I mean
by that is what would your ideal
Prospect quite literally search for if
they're ready to have a sales
conversation with your team today um so
if we go back to proposal tools if we go
down to kind of Niche longtail searches
it might be something like proposal tool
for sales teams or proposal tool for
accountants or um proposal tool for
finance or something like that a
longtail keyword which is relevant to
the offer and the market that you serve
it might not be that variation that's
just guessing off the top of my head but
work out what your target markets are
with a variation of your tool included
um so those are some of the main ones
and likewise competitor Alternatives can
be quite good in the the tech space so
pandadoc alternative proposed by
alternative and there's a bunch of
others knowing your competitors and
building those out so those are probably
some of the first places you start yes
you're probably thinking why don't I
just go for a kind of super juicy
generic keyword that has thousands of
traffic like proposal tool or proposal
software which you can by all means but
don't expect to get results too quickly
unless you've got a million or so uh
dollars to pump into links and building
authority because there'll be Giants in
the space so those more generic
competitive terms they can be your
long-term goal over the next 12 18 24
months but in the meantime we want to
see results in kind of three to six
months with these longtail searches so
once you've nailed those create content
like
hopspot exactly yeah you're not going to
rank CRM for CRM uh keywords in there
anytime soon unless you've got kind of a
few million in the bank um so yeah that
that's what I mean by those and then
once you've kind of determined those
Search terms then you want to build
best-in-class content pages so really
long form detail pages that address what
a customer cares about if they're
searching for that offer so something I
did when I got us ranking for U B2B SEO
company recently in in UK and some EU
countries was I basically just typed in
on Google B2B SEO company looked in what
the top three organic results were
assessed their pages and looked for gaps
I could fill where our content could be
better and you can do just the same on
your target Search terms but there's a
few tricks of the trade so you don't
just want to do your standard um content
where you try and whack in as much words
as possible you want to actually think
about well from a perspective like if
I'm talking about this offer on a sales
schol what do they actually care about
what does a prospect care about
ultimately yeah that's quickly talk we
can fix that problem let's quickly give
them a sh snapshot of how this solution
addresses the problem let's show some
examples some social proof of addressing
it maybe testimonial videos maybe a
quick case study whatever um maybe you
want to qualify people on the page maybe
we'll even re U mention pricing um
because we want to make sure if someone
clicks the call to action that we we
qualify them in if they b a demo and
then also one that I did quite recently
that helped me on a rank that B2B SEO
company page was I was struggling
actually because I was on page two for
ages and I thought well why did I
actually um address objections that come
up on sales schools all the time so
quite often in my case people ask me
like how much does it cost why are you
more expensive than other companies
isn't Google ads quicker than SEO um how
long does it take like all these
questions I get daily on on sales calls
what I address them directly and I'm
sure if in your industry you get much
the same around pricing implementation
do I get an account manager whatever
quite literally address those up front
most of your competitors will be scared
stiff or their answers that they do give
will be super fluffy but get specific
get crisp and actually give people the
answers they want because not only is
that going to help your SEO because
you're addressing what's called eat
experience expertise Authority trust
which Google laid down as an algorithm
update end of last year so you're
helping with content you're helping with
content that's actually worthwhile but
you're also giving prospects the answer
to the questions that they care about
thus making them more likely to trust
you and then convert and kind of request
that demo request that call so that's
something to think about for your long
form pages to actually make sure they
rank and yes you want to do technical
seos you want to give a decent meta um
title description do your heading tags
and all that jazz and make sure you've
got a fast loading page that works well
on mobile and PC that goes without
saying so that's some things to consider
there um and then when it comes to
getting stakeholder Buy in like SEO is
always a game right because loads of SEO
experts will say it depends on how long
is it going to take to see rankings and
see inbound yes um and the thing about
SEO is it's well some people kind of
think that it's um like a form of direct
marketing or a form of response
marketing or that kind of stuff I think
it's much more right because thing about
SEO is that a lot of prospects in my
opinion anyway subliminally Place more
trust in organic search results compared
to paid so any Savvy person knows that
an organic result is earned whereas a
paid one is just paid for
placement um so so what the angle I
quite like to take when it comes to
pitching SEO to your stakeholders is is
look if prospects are quite literally
searching for our offer on Google as it
stands our competitors are snapping up
the traffic just because they rank
higher than us every time a prospect
searches for our offer if they search
for a competitor if they search for a
problem we fix competitors are above us
they're quite literally stealing traffic
and opportunities to the website um so
that's one way you can kind of play into
the the uh bleeding neck problem that
ignoring SEO cost
um and likewise good thing about SEO is
it's an asset so every piece of content
you create on your website be it a
solution page a comparison page a Blog
article is a piece of Evergreen content
meaning it's searchable not just now but
for months and years to come so just
like when you do a search on YouTube how
to do something you know best ways to do
something you'll see a video a few weeks
a few months even years old SEO content
is just the same right it can it can uh
be found it can drive traffic um it can
build trust but also it can drive
inbounds for not just now but for years
and years to come so that's one of the
angles I like to play um stakeholders
are always quite Keen to see immediate
results from like ads or outbound sales
or whatever but if you explain this
properly and say look SEO is also going
to strengthen those channels because if
prospects keep seeing us top of organic
search whilst they're comparing their
vendors whilst they're perhaps being
outreached on email and calls um it's
only going to strengthen the other
channels so yeah those are a few things
that I tend to recommend no absolutely
uh that makes a lot of sense you know
it's it's like as a marketer who's been
in the world of content and SEO uh this
makes for of amazing conversation
because you know on one side we are
trying to um con consistently rank
better and uh be more aailable and seen
uh by our um primary Target customers
but at the same time you know you also
notice that every now and then the top
five people who rank for these
things write the same regurgitated
content and uh the content ranks it's
functional but it's not very exciting
when you go into it that's why I L the
part where you said that you need to
really understand what people are
looking for and uh not just be purely
technical to just give you one example
you know people have abused this FAQs on
the page to an extent that Google has
now you know removed that apart from all
of that so so how do you balance that
yeah yeah you're exactly right
especially with AI right now right when
people can use tools like Jasper and
whatever and just get a 1500 2,000w
article or page with a click of the
fingers yeah um but I think people maybe
not so now but definitely in the the
weeks the months and years to come
people are going to realize like they'll
just skim the content it's like when
you're on the LinkedIn feed and you see
someone does a post and you see some of
the comments are just automated from Ai
and they'll say like w this is awesome
content this is going to Skyrocket my
gains and like all this kind of nonsense
and it's like articles some of them just
look like that they just look like
they've been written by a robot and
eventually that will people will become
aware to that so if they land on your
site they're reading these Pages they're
just going to bounce straight off um
thus harming your your rankings and
harming your conversion rate in your
website session times so actually
putting thought I think there's nothing
wrong with using AI as a framework for
Content but then you want to involved a
sub subject matter expert from your team
they can really say look if a prospect
lands on this is it actually going to
resonate with them is it going to talk
about kind of their problems the pains
that they're facing is it going to dress
those headon is it going to give them
relevant social proof to build trust is
it going to kind of overcome any
objections that we often see is it going
to address the questions is it going to
give them everything on this page in
order for them to trust us as a a useful
asset to their business and take them
one step closer to kind of having a
conversation with sales there's no point
creating invisible content that ranks
absolutely love that right uh let's
finally talk about um the the
backlinking aspect you know one of the
primary aspect or or factors that people
consider when it comes to SEO is the
amount of back links that you have
sometimes you know in my personal
opinion I've also seen that quality
content even with internal backlinking
has sometime ranked pretty quickly uh
but let's let's talk about the idea of
backlinking in the sense that um you
know should you be really reaching out
to people and building those backlinks
or is the idea to create content that is
back linkable like how um you know
research documents or the statistic
stocks are created by the hpot and all
these other people so what is your
approach how do you look at it yeah yeah
so where does backlink fit into the
strategy I'll give you the scrappy s
point of view which would be kind of
useful forh absolutely I love that
bootstrap Founders and marketers with
limited budgets Etc so it's kind of a
bit more realistic than just talking
about what's applies to a kind of VC or
funded company first and foremost like
you mentioned there yag you don't always
need links so if you copy some of the
strategies that I said earlier in this
like for example when I've ranked some
quite Niche terms like B2B SAS SEO and
B2B SEO company and kind of real
longtale specific terms didn't actually
get any links to do those I just made
best-in-class content really analyzed a
competitor and built for buyer but when
we go to generic terms they've got tons
of traffic when we go to like proposal
tool I don't know best accountancy
software kind of real SP real kind of
competitive generic high traffic volume
Search terms you haven't got a hope in
Hell of ranking without quality links
because you have serious Giants in the
industry that have acquired tons of high
domain Authority links so Google Sees uh
links as a as a trust building Factor so
when it comes to ranking for really
juicy terms yeah you you probably need
some um so a few Scrappy ways that you
can build some backlinks ramp up your
domain Authority and kind of start
building the rankings for some
competitive terms one of my favorites is
doing what we do now so actually
guesting on podcasts so a nice way to do
that is what you can do is there's a
good site called chartable chartable
tocom you go go there it's got a a
dropdown so you can quite literally
click Apple podcast click your Target
location us UK whatever click the
subcategory marketing Finance Tech
whatever choose that then you can see
the top 50 top 100 podcasts in your
Niche which is a gold mine because from
there you can Outreach to the hosts and
essentially get as a guest on there so
you want to get your subject matter
expert whether that's yourself or
someone on your team one of the best
ways that I found to do it is to
actually personalize connect to them on
LinkedIn um so send a painfully short
message none of the these 100w emails
that clogs the inbox literally find them
on LinkedIn the host of the show send
them a painfully short personalized
request like hey John just listen to
episode one1 love the point on this um
would be great to come on your show and
talk about this x y and Zed I was
recently on this show something like
that bit of social proof within the
message and then end it like are you
against a conversation so a bit of a
Chris Voss reverse psychology close um
question and that has quite a good
uccess rate what you want to do is kind
of slowly pitch pitch a few of those a
day um and then over time you'll get
yourself some good guest appearances on
some relevant shows to your Niche and
then what you can do is you can of
course record a decent show share some
actionable tips and then once you've got
your show you can then ask them to give
a back link on their article to one of
your target keywords on your site um but
that's like a double hitter because you
get PR you'll probably get some exposure
from the podcast but you also get a nice
link back to your site that's one
freeway um another freeway is
Partnerships again this is a this is
probably a double hitter as well so you
find complimentary companies to your
industry um that aren't direct
competitors but as something perhaps
that customers ask you for so in my case
is like a B2B SEO and website and go to
market
consultant then quite a lot of the time
I get asked about LinkedIn ads I just
don't do them so I'll recommend a guy
called Justin row and his company
impactable and likewise whenever they
need whenever they get asked about
websites SEO and that kind of thing
they'll just pass them to me so you set
up a Channel with Rec with kind of
complimentary companies that serve
similar clients to pass business to each
other so that's free leads free inbound
but you to my point you create some
media together so that could be a joint
podcast a joint YouTube video series on
how to um you create some blog articles
some howto guides and then you create
some nice natural links on each other's
sites um gives you a nice little boost
and at the same time also grow your
business through a referral partnership
scheme um really nice kind of go to
market and way to kind of ramp up
inbound leads and then lastly to your
point create content so good at gets
links yes that's an option so when
you're building out Pages if you have
got unique assets or unique data points
that you can leverage I you've done some
custom research on a certain segment and
you've got some interesting statistics
that you can put into some cool chart
Great Stuff um so if you got anything
like that that's always going to be a a
win for sure amazing and the first two
points that you mentioned you know about
podcasts and partnering the the the best
part and the worst part about this is
that if you do it well you can build
amazing relationships you can find the
best audience and communicate your
message in a in a nice way like you know
you're you're um making this
conversation here and it's exactly the
Right audience because my audience is
primarily content marketing folks from
SAS and this is the perfect way to talk
and this is a perfect audience and the
conversation is very very uh relatable
because you're you're talking to the
problems that they face on a daily basis
but on the contrary you know this is one
area that also heavily gets messed up
like every single day I probably get
about 10 emails that says that hey this
is the profile of this person would you
like to have him on the show and I'm
like this guy is and they they even make
this as template you know the line that
you said that I heard you say this on
this and now people have made it in such
a template that it is so fake when you
read it at first and sometimes I respond
to these people saying that by the way
this person was not on my show and you
did not get him because we we never
ended up recording an episode it's it's
it becomes a blast right same thing with
partnership as well it's like hey I have
this blog post I saw that you wrote on
this can you give me a backlink that's
not where you start a relationship
no not at all you want to be a bit more
um a bit more tailored a bit more
thoughtful so um especially on
Partnerships like
LinkedIn I don't know how I approach it
with some of our partners like usually I
I probably kind of engaged on their
posts for a while and then maybe sent
them a tailored video message and said
look I see you guys are serving a
similar client base I think we could
start kind of passing inquiries to you
and would you be open to having like a
quick zoom on kind of what we could send
each other's way and maybe build some
content together and they already kind
of trust you because you've engaged with
that stuff on LinkedIn for a little
while and you've built up a bit of a a
bit of a back and forth right um so
let's let's Summit all the Su sum this
all up from the lens of you know looking
at it as a whole website um I mean uh
you guys are specialists in this so um
what how do you rate a typical website
on what basis what what makes you say
that hey this is an amazing website that
you will give them an A+ whereas some
site you'll say that hey these guys
don't have the basic parameters and it's
it's is it based on design is it based
on the components or is it based on
messaging uh how do you judge it there's
so much that goes into a great website
um but I'll give you the key overview
and probably n 90% of the websites that
I see in B2B and SAS are pretty shocking
mainly because they're not built for for
buyers prospects aka the people that are
going toy your stuff um so you got to
think of it this way typically um and
these insights I've gathered from kind
of data of our own websites clients
websites and also from my podcast
business growth show from interviewing
like 340 B2B senior marketing exacts so
usually if someone's going onto your
site the main things they actually care
about doing is quickly getting an idea
of what you do how you can help them and
the problem you fix they want to see
some proof of result so maybe case
studies uh testimonial videos Etc that
you can actually deliver on what you
you're promising they want to check that
they can afford your stuff so they want
to see a pricing page they want to make
sure it's actually going to be within
budget um they want to get their
questions answered so in relevant Pages
you want to kind of address questions
concerns problems that we talked about
earlier and on the basis that you check
all those boxes then they want an easy
way to strike up a conversation idea
with an AE they don't want to be
qualified by an SDR they want to book
time on your rep's calendar and have a
decent conversation with an AE so some
kind of calendar tool or straightforward
form so they can easily request that
demro consult so that's the main things
that someone wants to see from a B2B
website from my experience um but where
they go wrong is that kind of websites
messaging content pages are built on ego
AKA what the SE Suite thinks is going to
work and look good rather than actually
crafting the messaging content design
around what your focus clients care
about um and that that could be a whole
episode in itself but a kind of crucial
step is customer research before you
actually do any design or copy so
talking if you've got customers that is
so if you've got like top 10 clients
that you can interview kind of really
understanding things like what they care
about seeing in a vendors like your
space if you've got an existing website
and you're redesigning like what they
feel is missing on your current website
um understanding the main kind of
problems frustrations they have that
they want to
tackle understanding what they feel is
better on any competitors um and really
kind of going through the jobs to be
done framework like what job are they
trying to fix where are they getting
stuck now um what is what are some of
the issues with your current site what
are the kind of main things that they
actually care about seeing on a vendor
like yours website quickly um and what
do they feel they need to see before
they're ready to have a sales
conversation I.E on SAS and Tech
websites a lot of companies tend to hide
their demos whereas if you talk to
prospects they'd much rather probably
see a live video demo or see an
interactive demo or something like that
then give you their email be contacted
by sales reps they probably want to see
kind of some some variation of your
product before they're ready to have a
sales convo so great websites are built
on Rock Solid research um because that
informs your copy your messaging um key
pages and design and then making sure
that that actually is addressed when
you're building out those pages
understanding what people want to
quickly learn see or do before they're
going to be ready to take that demo or
book that sales schol is pretty
important no I love how this is like so
tough the mind for you that it just
flows like a river that you're you're
like probably you're seeing this on a
daily basis number of people doing the
same set of things again and again and
it it just comes like a waterfall I I
love you know the way you explain this
because you know I have seen certain
websites with integration pages that
literally say like connect everything do
anything I'm like what the hell are you
talking
about yeah right so it's it's about and
and I I love the you know jobs to be
done aspect I just recorded and
published this uh podcast episode with
uh uh Bob Mista where he entirely spoke
about using jobs to be done uh to create
content and um it was a very interesting
conversation wherein he said that you
know he asked me what did you recently
buy and I told him I bought a pair of
shoes I said then he asked like why did
you buy it and I said I bought it
because um you know I joined a gym and I
had to buy this I'm like no no no no how
many shoes did you have I said I had one
he said why did you not use it I said
the gym has a rule that I cannot wear
shoes that I wear on the street into the
gym so he said oh okay now you're
talking then as he asked further and
further you know he was finally able to
layer out and give me this example
saying that your purpose was not to buy
a shoe your purpose was Fitness and uh
this was a hurdle in your way so you had
to go and buy a shoe quickly and you
probably might not be even thinking of
the brand that you want because you want
to quickly buy a shoe and your problem
is this and then he asked me how much
time did you spend in buying the shoe I
said less than five minutes in the store
so there was the answer right A lot of
people make their product the biggest
deal whereas what the customer wants to
accomplish and what they want to feel at
the end of it your product might be a
small Speck of dust in that whole
Journey that they are having and you
cannot blow this out of proportion I
absolutely love it so true I have to
listen to that abod because that sounds
interesting but yeah like you say
knowing knowing those things like in
your case the Tipping Point that
actually drove you to decide that now is
the point you need to get those new
trainers like that's I could talk about
this stuff all day but it's like with
homepage website homepage headlines just
like you mentioned there where you go on
a SAS homepage and it's like we're a 360
degree allinone
encompassing a piece of software that's
going to manage everything A to Z and
it's like I've landed on your webisode
but I'm still not entirely sure what you
do so if a prospect just clicked a paid
ad or come from organic or whatever like
how are they getting a clear idea of how
you're going to improve their life their
business or fix something they care
about kind of solving um so it does
Boggle me why companies do that kind of
stuff absolutely right so with that
let's move to the second part of the
podcast which we call the rapid fire
section in this part I'm going to shoot
five pointed questions at you the
questions might be short but the answers
need not be you can go with the flow
based on whatever comes to your mind so
are you ready let's
[Music]
go all right here's question number one
WordPress or webflow which one do you
prefer and
why that's good word press from an SEO
perspective um and for future
scalability but it's worth noting that a
lot of SAS companies are moving to web
flow for ease of use wow interesting
actually you know on the contrary um I
don't maybe this is my observation I've
always felt that things rank faster on
webflow but webflow is little harder to
use compared to um WordPress for me but
maybe uh you know I'm not an expert on
webflow that's why I feel that I just
did a LinkedIn post about web webflow
versus WordPress funny
enough right right I'm going to go and
check that that's awesome uh so here's
question number two what is your
reaction to the LinkedIn post that pops
up every now and then claiming that SEO
is dead yeah seo's dead cold calling is
dead demand gen's dead paid search is
dead podcasting everything's dead man
like why why bother with marketing
because it's all dead um no it's all
click blate right like most things are
LinkedIn they need to have these kind of
hooks to get the traction get the
engagement and get people to click see
more
um a lot of stuff's dead if you don't
have the right strategy but the thing
about SEO is SEO is not always the best
fit for companies so you've got actually
the be SEO works best when you're in a
market that is established you have
prospects actively searching for your
solution if you're in a brand new
category or a brand new sector it's not
always the best fit or likewise if you
don't have resources to assign to it
properly it might not be for you here's
question number three one thing that you
believe that you still haven't mastered
when comes to SEO so I lean heavily on
strategy and the content side of things
that you might have kind of heard me
talking about so that's that's why I
have a development team so they can
handle the technical side of things so
that's probably the the area that I
could improve on hence why I have
smarter people than me doing it for us I
think we both are on the same page uh
I'm also like that more of a Content
person and less technical yeah love that
right question number four having worked
with a lot of SAS companies um and on
their websites especially espcially what
is one most common area of improvement
that you have come across customer
research really so SEO aside just like I
said there building out your messaging
content Pages for what your focus what
your dream clients actually care about
learning seeing or doing yes the final
rapid fire one metric that you would
highly recommend to measure SEO
Performance Based on and one metric that
you absolutely hate measuring SEO on
well it's got to drive Revenue so to get
that you've got to measure the inbound
demo requests or consult requests or
call requests that's the main metric
people actually care about um and it is
difficult attributions are funny Beast
right so that's why I'm not going down
the Chris Walker route and just saying
rely on how you hear about us as a field
on your inquiry forms yes ad how did you
hear about us and shout out to Tom Hunt
because he mentioned recently on your
what I'm saying here is on your demo
request forms or consult request forms
out a field for how did you hear about
us but in brackets put leave as much
detail as you want with a smiley face
that helps you get more info in that
field um but what you'll find is if you
rely on a field like that to attribute
how people are finding you a lot of
people put like Google LinkedIn quite
onew answers so use that as data one
data point use your analytics software
Google analytics HubSpot as another data
point but then also when you call the
lead when you have the conversation ask
them what how did you stumble upon us
today what was the full Journey that you
took and use all those three points
together to get the full journey of kind
of how they found you whether it was
organic search maybe they went on Google
maybe they then asked a pier maybe they
then went at slack community so you can
get all that data together and another
great question to ask on those sales
calls is I know you've got your choice
of vendors in our in our industry why
did you take the time to fill out our
form as a post to competitor that'll
give you a lot of Intel as to to why
they chose you I suppose if if you're
only M if you're only reporting on
rankings because then a company could
just be like well we got a th page ones
or a th kind of page one position one
organic but they're not actually for
money search terms they're not actually
contributing to relevant traffic that's
actually uh driving inbounds and and I
love the depth that you went into uh
talking of attribution because you know
this is one area that I personally have
seen a lot like uh I 100% agree with you
that leaving a blank does not get uh an
in-depth answer as expected the reality
is of course a combination like you
mentioned and the interesting part you
know this is again another learning from
the Bob MOA episode wherein he says that
the reason why people go and choose
three or four people uh three or four
options is
that for all you know they might have
decided that this is the one that I want
to get into but they want two or three
more options so that they can eliminate
those three to make sure that their
decision is right that's from a jobs to
be done perspective but yeah uh asking
about these things as an AE into the
conversation gives you their holistic
Journey rather than you just looking at
certain data points and making
assumptions I absolutely love that yeah
man I I say that because I literally did
it ourselves like we added the how you
hear about us to our inquiry form some
time ago and we were getting just like
on liners like Google LinkedIn searched
online asked a friend doesn't really
tell you anything like it wasn't until I
was getting on those sales schols and
like asking them the detailed question
about their Journey then I was getting
kind of the real in-depth side of things
so it's worth worth bearing in mind that
not everything you see on LinkedIn is
Gospel and quite a lot of that stuff is
coming from marketers that never sold
anything in their life those are golden
words but maybe a little controversial
also but
controversial awesome and there we have
it I hope you found this episode of use
if you did a quick rating or review on
your podcast channel is appreciated or
subscribe on YouTube goes a long way and
to check out my daily to be marketing
email tips grab my free playbooks
podcasts or to apply to work with me
head over to samd dunn. org